
Archaeologist June Moon scales exotic lands in search of forgotten history and hidden gems. While exploring an ancient burial site she happens upon a statue opens it and is possessed by the dark entity within. Thus Enchantress is unleashed and is thought to be controlled by her heart which is left to rest at the burial site. At some point her allpowerful brother Incubus enters the picture and prompts Enchantress to go rogue. 

He was brought to life by his creators dark sciences the creature is born and abandoned by the world. He is not a monster because of what he does but by how he is brought into existence. Abandoned by his creator and socially shunned for his ugliness the creature has little love for humanity because he has been left entirely alone. He is denied basic companionship and sympathies from the people he encounters

The story goes that Draculas wife was burned as a witch while he is away from the castle. Heartbroken and enraged he unleashes every monster in the bestiary to destroy the lands of Walachia. Here we see a more vulnerable Dracula. He mourns he sheds tears for her and its possibly the most human version of the character weve ever seen.

After his wife was stricken with a fatal disease he devoted his life to finding a cure. After his funding was cut he suffered a lab accident that turned him into the menace in the metal suit. Driven by love and fuelled by icy scorn Mr. Death is nearly a not villain.

Magneto was his familys sole survivor of a Nazi death camp. He tragically witnessed his family murdered before his eyes a common trope amongst superheroes and supervillains alike. What sets this story apart however is the number of times his family escaped death camp after death camp only to succumb to fatality in the end.
After surviving the incident this fallen hero was forced to endure psychologically brutal enslavement. At the hands of the Nazis he was made to dispose of the bodies of the victims of the death camps he once inhabited and this leads to him becoming a psychopath.

Scarecrow was born Jonathan Crane a terrified child who was regularly subject to cruel experiments conducted by his own father after his mother died. Unlike some other abuse villains Jonathans scars were mental hurting him in a way that was difficult to prove. Among other things Jonathans father liked to lock him in a room with fear inducing toxins a method he would later utilize on his own victims. In certain retellings of the story the perpetrator is Jonathans grandmother instead of his father. Either way these experiments eventually drive young Jonathan into incurable madness. In every variation of the story he is harassed relentlessly by family members and peers yet he continues to maintain a kind and humble attitude. It is the insanity that turns him into Scarecrow in the end.

Many a super character be they villain hero or something inbetween have been victimized by an abusive father. Perhaps none however have paid a higher price than Batmans nemesis Bane. Bane was born between the walls of a prison his life sentence divvied out before he was even born. It was a sentence he was serving in his fathers place. Hows that for passing the buck? Bane was raised by the Hard Rock named by a warden and forced to fight for his own life on a daily basis. He killed his first man as a child by wisely hiding a murder weapon in his teddy bear. As an adult after knowing nothing but rage he was subject to intense experimentation like a common lab rat. As the result of an experiment gone haywire Bane was presumed dying and thrown out to sea. It was on that illfated day that he rose from the ashes of his wretched existence and lived on to become one of  most feared foes.

When a struggling comedian turns to a life of crime in order to support his pregnant wife the end result is tragedy. Not just for the comedian mind you but for everyone in Gotham City. During a routine robbery Red Hood later known as the Joker falls into a vat of toxic chemicals. Not only does the solution horribly disfigure his face it also causes him to lose his mind. In his madness the Joker goes on to commit some of the most heinous crimes known to man. Heartbreakingly on a few occasions the Jokers conscience emerges from the ashes of his past and the truth comes to light. As it turns out it is the Jokers madness that drives him to commit these crimes. Each time his sanity is restored the thoughts of the things he has done to people haunt him so much that he reverts back to his shattered mental state. Its a vicious cycle of insanity.
 
Doomsday despite his menacing exterior is really just dealing with some daddy issues. Doomsdays father was a mad scientist who built his "son" out of the remains of hundreds of lifeless test tube children all of whom were Doomsdays siblings. In other words Doomsday himself is created out of hundreds of his own dead siblings. Gross. At this point you might be wondering how things could get any worse than that. Well because Doomsday was created to be an immortal monster with an undying hatred for all living beings he was banished from several worlds constantly attacked since the age of two isolated and finally abandoned. At one point as a toddler he was left alone to drift in space dying and coming back to life over and over again. Yeah that seems like a pretty reasonable explanation for anger issues.

Dr. Doom was born into a witches coven orphaned at a young age and persecuted by an unjust monarchy. His love for his mother led him into a life of sorcery that would ultimately become his doom (heh). At first he tried to use his powers for good and attempted to rescue his mothers soul from the afterlife. Things did not go... well. Like scores of comic book villains before him his experiment left him scarred both physically and emotionally. In fact he was so psychologically damaged by the superficial wounds on his face that he burned his entire body to reflect his tortured soul. Oh and all of this happened before he even graduated college. Talk about a rough childhood.

Tragically Red Skull never got to know a mothers love or the warmth of a bed. His mother died during childbirth and his already abusive father then tried to drown him. On top of all this the guy grew up in Nazi Germany in an impoverished village. He spent a good deal of his childhood in an orphanage and on the streets. By his teen years he was already in and out of jail. To make matters worse there was only one person whoever showed Red Skull any genuine attention or affection: Adolph Hitler. And we all know how that turned out. 

The Mandarin was a prodigy born to a prominent family blessed with an enormous fortune and considerable political power. What could possibly go wrong? Well after the death of both parents pretty much everything. Mandarin was raised by a frivolous aunt who squandered his massive inheritance until the two of them were forced into poverty and homelessness. Shortly thereafter his aunt died and the Mandarin was forced to wander as a young beggar with nothing to his name. Even as a bad guy his ultimate goal for his people was justice harmony and peace. However without ever witnessing those things for himself the inevitable occurred and he was pushed into a life of crime.




