Doctor Heinz Doofenshmirtz is one of the most comedic villains in recent years, but he's also one of the most tragic figures Disney has ever created. Doofenshmirtz has been abandoned, neglected, raised by wild ocelots, and nearly slapsticked to a fatal end on a regular basis by Perry the Platypus. That's pretty rotten luck even for a villain.

In the comics, Dr. Maru is better known as Doctor Poison, a Nazi spy who helps the Germans and Japanese in chemical warfare during WWII. But in Wonder Woman, she’s a madwoman who’s set on destroying humanity. According to Elena Anaya, Dr. Maru self-inflicted her own facial scarring. She’s a sadist at heart and wants to be certain that her chemical warfare inflicts as much human suffering as possible.

As a child, he drowned at Camp Crystal Lake, where he was severely bullied and his mother Pamela worked as a cook. After his death, Pamela goes mad and begins murdering the campers. When she meets her end at the camp, he returns from the dead to avenge her death. In his many iterations on film, he goes on murdering spree after murdering spree because he simply can’t escape the eternal nightmare of his death.

In one of his origins, the Joker began as a dedicated mobster. Jack Napier has his sights set on being the top guy in the Gotham Crime Syndicate. When mob boss Carl Grissom gets hip to Jack’s plan to overthrow him, he arranges for Jack to be killed by GCPD officer, Lt. Max Eckhardt at Axis Chemicals. Jack goes on the run, eventually battling Batman at the plant and falls into a pool of chemical waste. He re-emerges a new man: he’s physically deformed and psychologically damaged.

John Kramer is a man dying from an inoperable brain tumor. After failing a suicide attempt, he decides to turn on everyone else, particularly those who take their lives for granted. In an effort to make them fight for the lives they so frivolously waste, John— or Jigsaw— brutally tortures them. But he’s not alone; he’s got a whole crew of “Jigsaws” working in his name all over the world.

Asylum's Bloodyface was born Oliver Thredson, a foster child abandoned by his birth mother. After spending his childhood alone in an orphanage, Thredson looks high and low for a woman who might become a suitable mother figure. He kills each one who does not meet his requirements and comes to be known as Bloody Face. As an adult, Thredson becomes a skilled psychiatrist and goes on to torment women at Briarcliff Asylum, including Lana Winters with whom he has a child.

Hannibal Lecter is a psychiatrist. but he’s also a killer, a cannibal, and an all-around bad dude who’s trying to turn cops into killers. He was orphaned at a young age and came to America from Lithuania, where he defended his aunt’s honor and avenged his uncle’s death by committing murder. But that’s just one of the many backstories out there.

Before transforming into Harley Quinn, this villain-turned-antihero was formerly known as psychiatrist Harleen Quinzell. Tasked with psychoanalyzing the Joker, she charged forth on her mission with a strong sense of self and a solid moral compass. But the more time she spent with the Joker, the more she fell for him. In the end, she ditched her former life to commit 100% to her new man and transformed into a villain.

Once a well-regarded African American painter who lived in Chicago during the Jim Crow Era, Candyman fell in love with a white woman and had a child with her out of wedlock. Upon discovering this information, the woman’s father hires a lynch mob to go after Candyman. The mob beats him, severs his hand, replaces it with a hook, and smears his body with honey. A swarm of bees overtakes his body and he’s stung to death.

Once a young, innocent and vulnerable fairy,  Maleficent falls in love with a young man who gives her ‘true love’s kiss’ at sixteen. The young man fades from her life only to return years later to strip Maleficent of her beloved and powerful wings. This betrayal sends her on a downward spiral into darkness, hellfire, and revenge.

Archaeologist June Moon scales exotic lands in search of forgotten history and hidden gems. While exploring an ancient burial site she happens upon a statue opens it and is possessed by the dark entity within. Thus Enchantress is unleashed and is thought to be controlled by her heart which is left to rest at the burial site. At some point her allpowerful brother Incubus enters the picture and prompts Enchantress to go rogue. 

He was brought to life by his creators dark sciences the creature is born and abandoned by the world. He is not a monster because of what he does but by how he is brought into existence. Abandoned by his creator and socially shunned for his ugliness the creature has little love for humanity because he has been left entirely alone. He is denied basic companionship and sympathies from the people he encounters

The story goes that Draculas wife was burned as a witch while he is away from the castle. Heartbroken and enraged he unleashes every monster in the bestiary to destroy the lands of Walachia. Here we see a more vulnerable Dracula. He mourns he sheds tears for her and its possibly the most human version of the character weve ever seen.

After his wife was stricken with a fatal disease he devoted his life to finding a cure. After his funding was cut he suffered a lab accident that turned him into the menace in the metal suit. Driven by love and fuelled by icy scorn Mr. Death is nearly a not villain.

Magneto was his familys sole survivor of a Nazi death camp. He tragically witnessed his family murdered before his eyes a common trope amongst superheroes and supervillains alike. What sets this story apart however is the number of times his family escaped death camp after death camp only to succumb to fatality in the end.
After surviving the incident this fallen hero was forced to endure psychologically brutal enslavement. At the hands of the Nazis he was made to dispose of the bodies of the victims of the death camps he once inhabited and this leads to him becoming a psychopath.

Scarecrow was born Jonathan Crane a terrified child who was regularly subject to cruel experiments conducted by his own father after his mother died. Unlike some other abuse villains Jonathans scars were mental hurting him in a way that was difficult to prove. Among other things Jonathans father liked to lock him in a room with fear inducing toxins a method he would later utilize on his own victims. In certain retellings of the story the perpetrator is Jonathans grandmother instead of his father. Either way these experiments eventually drive young Jonathan into incurable madness. In every variation of the story he is harassed relentlessly by family members and peers yet he continues to maintain a kind and humble attitude. It is the insanity that turns him into Scarecrow in the end.

Many a super character be they villain hero or something inbetween have been victimized by an abusive father. Perhaps none however have paid a higher price than Batmans nemesis Bane. Bane was born between the walls of a prison his life sentence divvied out before he was even born. It was a sentence he was serving in his fathers place. Hows that for passing the buck? Bane was raised by the Hard Rock named by a warden and forced to fight for his own life on a daily basis. He killed his first man as a child by wisely hiding a murder weapon in his teddy bear. As an adult after knowing nothing but rage he was subject to intense experimentation like a common lab rat. As the result of an experiment gone haywire Bane was presumed dying and thrown out to sea. It was on that illfated day that he rose from the ashes of his wretched existence and lived on to become one of  most feared foes.

When a struggling comedian turns to a life of crime in order to support his pregnant wife the end result is tragedy. Not just for the comedian mind you but for everyone in Gotham City. During a routine robbery Red Hood later known as the Joker falls into a vat of toxic chemicals. Not only does the solution horribly disfigure his face it also causes him to lose his mind. In his madness the Joker goes on to commit some of the most heinous crimes known to man. Heartbreakingly on a few occasions the Jokers conscience emerges from the ashes of his past and the truth comes to light. As it turns out it is the Jokers madness that drives him to commit these crimes. Each time his sanity is restored the thoughts of the things he has done to people haunt him so much that he reverts back to his shattered mental state. Its a vicious cycle of insanity.
 
Doomsday despite his menacing exterior is really just dealing with some daddy issues. Doomsdays father was a mad scientist who built his "son" out of the remains of hundreds of lifeless test tube children all of whom were Doomsdays siblings. In other words Doomsday himself is created out of hundreds of his own dead siblings. Gross. At this point you might be wondering how things could get any worse than that. Well because Doomsday was created to be an immortal monster with an undying hatred for all living beings he was banished from several worlds constantly attacked since the age of two isolated and finally abandoned. At one point as a toddler he was left alone to drift in space dying and coming back to life over and over again. Yeah that seems like a pretty reasonable explanation for anger issues.

Dr. Doom was born into a witches coven orphaned at a young age and persecuted by an unjust monarchy. His love for his mother led him into a life of sorcery that would ultimately become his doom (heh). At first he tried to use his powers for good and attempted to rescue his mothers soul from the afterlife. Things did not go... well. Like scores of comic book villains before him his experiment left him scarred both physically and emotionally. In fact he was so psychologically damaged by the superficial wounds on his face that he burned his entire body to reflect his tortured soul. Oh and all of this happened before he even graduated college. Talk about a rough childhood.

Tragically Red Skull never got to know a mothers love or the warmth of a bed. His mother died during childbirth and his already abusive father then tried to drown him. On top of all this the guy grew up in Nazi Germany in an impoverished village. He spent a good deal of his childhood in an orphanage and on the streets. By his teen years he was already in and out of jail. To make matters worse there was only one person whoever showed Red Skull any genuine attention or affection: Adolph Hitler. And we all know how that turned out. 

The Mandarin was a prodigy born to a prominent family blessed with an enormous fortune and considerable political power. What could possibly go wrong? Well after the death of both parents pretty much everything. Mandarin was raised by a frivolous aunt who squandered his massive inheritance until the two of them were forced into poverty and homelessness. Shortly thereafter his aunt died and the Mandarin was forced to wander as a young beggar with nothing to his name. Even as a bad guy his ultimate goal for his people was justice harmony and peace. However without ever witnessing those things for himself the inevitable occurred and he was pushed into a life of crime.





